---
title: "2016 Year in Review"
date: "2016-12-20"
category: "entrepreneurship"
meta_description: ""
slug: "2016"
---

Always set goals, and always measure them. Here is a list of things I’ve done in the year of 2016.

Reading
I managed to read 26 books this year, that’s exactly 1 book every 2 weeks. I was hoping I could read more but there were too many things to work on at First Code Academy. My secret is carrying my Kindle everywhere with me when I know I will be waiting, flying, or having no Internet. I did not really have a theme for the year, I would say towards the end of the year, it became more focused on Leadership and Personal Growth.

Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future

Pour Your Heart Into It: How Starbucks Built a Company One Cup at a Time

How I Lost 170 Million Dollars: My Time as #30 at Facebook

Mr. Penumbra’s 24-Hour Bookstore: A Novel

When Breath Becomes Air

How to Lie With Statistics

Bargaining for Advantage: Negotiation Strategies for Reasonable People

Delivering Happiness

The Internet is My Religion

Tribal Leadership

I Love You More Than My Dog

Shoe Dog

Augmented Age

High Output Management (yet to finish)

Building Great Software Engineering Teams

Turn the Ship Around!: A True Story of Turning Followers into Leaders

Search Inside Yourself: The Unexpected Path to Achieving Success, Happiness (and World Peace)

Mindset (paused)

The Course of Love

Do More Faster: TechStars Lessons to Accelerate Your Startup

Performing Under Pressure: The Science of Doing Your Best When It Matters Most (stopped, not interesting)

Peak: How Great Companies Get Their Mojo from Maslow

Work Clean: The life-changing power of mise-en-place to organize your life, work, and mind

The Amazon Way

How Google Works

The Coaching Habit: Say Less, Ask More & Change the Way You Lead Forever

Traveling
Compared with a lot of jetsetters out there, I don’t think the list is even worth sharing. Anyway, I would like to travel more with purpose, say running an overseas half marathon.

Cape Town & Johannesburg, South Africa

Bangkok, Thailand

Bangkok, Thailand

Rhode Island and Maine, USA

Phuket, Thailand

San Francisco, USA

Singapore

Siem Reap, Cambodia

Bali, Indonesia

Blogging
Including this post, I wrote 5 blog posts this year, far from my initial plan to get 12 blog posts out the door. Definitely something to work on in 2017.

7 Books to Read in 2016

7 Life Mottos I Live By

How We Define Our Company Culture at First Code Academy

You Have Been Finding Jobs The Wrong Way

2016 Year in Review

Public Speaking
I set myself a goal to take on the challenge of speaking in public this year. It just so happened that WHub was hosting an event about “working at a startup” and they invited me to be a panelist. It was my first ever public speaking gig and I was excited to share my startup experience with the audience.

Running
After my 1st half marathon in 2014 in Singapore, I told myself that the next one would not be coming soon. 2 years later, I figured I needed some new challenges in my life, and so instead of joining another half marathon, I joined 2. With a training plan in mind, I ran regularly throughout the year and achieved a personal best of 2h4m at the Angkor Wat Half Marathon, 4m behind my target yet still a major improvement. I’m thinking of signing up for more half marathons in 2017, anyone?

HKDRC Half Marathon - 2016 Oct

Angkor Wat Half Marathon - 2016 Dec